# sdmseq - Program to test methods of storing sequences in a Sparse Distributed Memory (SDM)

This program provides command-line options and also an interactive shell to test different
algorithms for storing sequences in a SDM.

## Requirements.

Python 3 and numpy.  Developed using Anaconda Python: https://www.anaconda.com/products/individual



## Getting Started

To see the command line options and default values, run the program with the '-h' opition:

```
python sdmseq.py -h
```

The program can be run with the defalut options by:

```
python sdmseq.py -h
```

The algorithms tested all implement a function "merge(item, history)" which takes two binary vector
inputs: `item` is the current item in the list, and `history` contains some representation of the history
of the sequence, and is usually the previous address.  The function returns a new address which is used to
store the item in the SDM.

The currently implemented algorithms and a description are:

- *hh*  - Concate every other bit of item followed by and every other bit of history.

- *hh2* - same as 'hh' but allows specifying the starting bit (0 or 1) for selecting every other
  bits.  This is done using the --start_bit or -b flag.

- *fl* - (stands for "first-last").  Concatenate first (1-hf)*N bits of item and last hf*N bits of permuted history.
  Parameter "hf" is history_fraction, an option set using the "-hf" flag.  Must be between 0 and 1.0.

- *wx* - (stands for weighted and XOR).  Concontate a history made in manner similar to hh and hh2 methods
  (weighted history component), with a xor component which is made by shifting the history one bit right
  (cyclic) and XOR'ing it with the item.   Flag "--xor_fraction" (-xf) specifies the fraction of bits allocated to
  xor component.  If xf == 1., the xor component takes up all the bits.  If xf==0, only the weighted history component
  is present.  Option "hf" specifies the formation of the history component, similar as in the fl algorithm.

- *wx2* - Similar to wx, with xf == .5 and hf == .5.  This was made a separate method to test storing an xor component
  along with data.


Once the program is running, interactive commands can be used to change option values and also save and recall strings.
The "u" command is used to view or change option values.

The "t" command can be used to test the convergence of a given algorithm.  It displays the hamming distance between
the value generated by the currently active merge algorithm when procesing each character of a string and an
aligned substring.  If the algorithm is working, the hamming distance should go towards zero the more characters
are processed.


